LETTER I.

To Mrs. Saville, England*

St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17—. You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil forebodings. I arrived ere yesterday; and my first task is to assure my dear sister of my welfare, and increasing confidence in the success of

my undertaking.

I am already far north of London; as I walk in the streets of Peters- burgh, I- feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which braces my nerves, and fills me with delight. Do you understand this feeling ? This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes. Inspirited by this wind of promise, my day dreams become more fervent and vivid. I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of frost and de- solation ; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the region of beauty and delight. There, Margaret, the sun is for ever visible; its broad disk just Skirting’ the horizon, and diffusing a perpetual- splendour. There—for with your leave, my sister, Twill putsome trust in preceding •navigators—there snow and frost are banished; ^ and, sail- ing over a calm sea, yrei may be- wafted to a land surpassing in: wonders and in beauty every region hitherto dis- covered on the habitable globe. Its productions and features may be with- out example, as the phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered solitudes. What may not he expected in a country of eternal light ? I may there discover the wondrous power which attraets the needle; and

Way regulate a thousand celestial ob- servations, that require only this voyage ‘o render their seeming eccentricities consistent for ever. I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part 01 the World never before visited, and way tread a land never before imprinted y t e foot of man; These are my en- ticements?, and they are sufficient to con- quer all fear of danger or death, and to induce me- to Commence this laborious °yage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little boat, with liis holi- day mates, on an expedition of discovery up his native river. But, supposing all these conjectures to be false, you cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I * shall confer on all mankind to the last 4generation, by discovering a passage near the pole to those countries, to reach which at present so many months are requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine.

These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my letter, and I feel my heart glow with an en- thusiasm which elevates me to heaven; for nothing contributes so much to tran- quillize the mind as a steady purpose,— a point on which the soul may fix its in- tellectual eye. This expedition has been the favourite dream of nay early years.

I have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages w'hich have been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean through the seas which surround the pole. You may re- member, that a history of all the voyages*1 made for purposes of discovery composed^ the whole of our good uncle Thomas’s library. My education was neglected, yet I was passionately fond of reading. These volumes were my study day and right, and my familiarity with them in- creased that regret which I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father’s dying injunction had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a sea-faring life.

These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets whose e usions entranced my soul, and lifted 1 to heaven. I also became a poet, and for one year lived ih a Paradise of my own creation; I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the names of -Homer and Sbakspeare are consecrated. Y ou are well acquainted with my failure, and how heavily I'bore the disappointment. But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my Cousin, and my thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent.

Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking. I can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise. I commenced by inuring my body to hardship. I accompanied the whaler fishers on several expeditions to the' North Sea; I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often Worked harder than the common sailors during the day, and devoted my nights to the study of mathematics, the theoi-y of medicine, and those branches of physical .science from which a naval adventurer might, derive, the greatest practical advantage. Twice I actually hired myself as an under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. I, must own I felt a little proud,, when .my captain offered me the second dignity in the vessel, and entreated me to remain with the greatest earnestness; so valuable did he consider my services.

And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great pur- pose? My life might have been passed in ease and luxury; but I preferred glory to every enticement that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some en- couraging voice would answer in the affirmative!’My courage and my reso- lution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, arid iny spirits are often depressed. I am about to proceed on a long and dif- ficult voyage; the emergencies of which will demand all my fortitude : I am re- quired not only to raise the spirits of others, but sometimes to sustain my own, when their’s are failing.

This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia. They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges; the mo- tion is pleasant, and, in my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stage-coach. The cold is not excessive, if you are wrapt in furs, a dress which I have already adopted; for there is a great difference between walking the deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise prevents the blood from actually freezing in your veins. I have no ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St. Peters- burgh and Archangel. I shall depart for the latter town in % fortnight or three weeks; and my in- tention is to hire a ship there, which can easily be done by paying the insurance for the owner, and to engage as many sailors as I think necessary among those who are accustomed to the whale-fishinsr. I do not intend to sail until the month of June; and when shall I return? Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this ques- tion ? If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you and I may meet. If I fail, you will see me again soon,, or never. v Farewell, my dear, excellent, Mar-garet. Heaven shower down blessings. °uyou, and save me, that I may again aud again testify my gratitude for all your love and kindness.

Your affectionate brother,

. R. Walton. 

LETTER II.

To Mrs. Saville, England.

Archangel, 28th March, 17—%

How slowly the time passes here, en- compassed as I am by frost and snow; yet a second step is taken towards my enterprise. I have hired a vessel, and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have already engaged ap- pear to be men on whom I can depend, and are certainly possessed of dauntless courage.

But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy ; and thfi absence of the object of which I now fetel as a most severe evil. I have no friend, Margaret: when I am glow- ing with the enthusiasm of success, there will be none to participate my joy; if I am assailed by disappoint- ment, no one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I shall commit my thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium for the communica- tion of feeling. I desire the company of a man who could sympathize with me; whose eyes would reply to mine. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a friend. I have no one near me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a cultivated 48 well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans. How would such a friend repair the faults of your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution, and too impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil to me that I ana self-educated: for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild on a common, and read nothing but our uncle Thomas’s books of voyages. At that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets, of our own country; but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to de- rive its most important benefits from such a conviction, that 1 perceived the necessity of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of my native country. Now I am twenty-eight, and am in reality more illiterate than many school-boys of fifteen. It is true that 1 have thought more, and that my day dreams are more extended and magni- ficent; but they want (as the painters call it) keeping; and I greatly need a friend who wouki have sense enough not to despise me as romantic, and affection i enough for me to endeavour to regulate my mind.

Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find no friend on the wide ocean, nor even here in Archangel, among merchants and seamen. Yet some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged bosoms. My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful courage and enter- prise; he is madly desirous of glory. He is an Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices, unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments of humanity. 1 first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel: finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily en- gaged him to assist in my enterprise.

The master is a person of an excel- lent disposition, and is remarkable in the ship for his gentleness and the mild- ness of his discipline. He is, indeed, of so amiable a nature, that he will not hunt (a favourite, and almost the only amusement here), because he cannot endure to spill blood. He is, moreover, heroically generous. Some years ago he loved a young Russian lady, of mo- derate fortune; and having amassed a considerable sum in prize-money, the father of the girl consented to the match. He saw his mistress once be- fore the destined ceremony; but she •was bathed in tears, and, throwing her- self at. his feet, entreated him to spare her, confessing at the same time that she loved another, but that he was poor, and that her father would never consent to the union. My generous friend re- assured the suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover in- stantly abandoned his pursuit. He had already bought a farm with his money, on which he had designed , to pass the remainder of his life; but he bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains of his prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young woman's father to consent to her marriage with her lover. But the old man decidedly refused, thinking him- self bound in honour to my friend; who, when he found the father in- exorable, quitted his country* nor re- turned until he heard that his former mistress was married according to her inclinations. “ What a noble fellow!” you will exclaim. He is so; but then he has passed all his life on board a vessel, and has scarcely an idea beyond the rope and the shroud.

But do not suppose that, because I complain a little, or because I can con- ceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that I am wavering in my resolutions. Those are as fixed as fate; and my voyage is only now delayed until the weather shall permit; my embarkation. The winter has been dreadfully severe; but the spring pro-, mises well, and it is considered as a remarkably early season; so that per- haps I may sail sooner than I expected. I shall do nothing rashly: you kno^ me sufficiently to confide in my pru- dence and considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed to my care*.

I cannot describe to you my sensa- tions on the near prospect of my under- taking. It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fear- ful, with which I am preparing to depart. I am going to unexplored regions, to “the land of mist and snow;” but I shall kill no-albatross, therefore do not be alarmed f°r my safety. Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of Africa or America? I dare not expect such suc- cess, yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the picture. Continue to write to me by every opportunity: I way receive your letters (though the chance is very doubtful) on some occa- sions when I need them most to support my spirits. I love you very tenderly. Remember me with affection, should you never hear from me again.

Your affectionate brother,

Robert Walton. 

LETTER III.

To Mrs. Saville, England.

July 7th, 17—•

MT DEAR SISTER,

1 write a few lines in haste, to say that I am safe, and well advanced oO my voyage. This letter will reach England by a merchant-man now on its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not see my native land, perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good spirits: my men are bold, and apparently firm of purpose; nor do the floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indi- eating the dangers of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dis- may them. We have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales, which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not expected.

No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter. One or two stiff gales, and the break- ing of a mast, are accidents which ex- perienced navigators scarcely remember to record; and I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage.

Adieu, my dear Margaret. Be assured, that for my own sake, as well as yourS, I will not rashly encounter danger. I will be cool, persevering, and prudent. -- ----------------------7 ---,

Remember me to all my English friends.

Most affectionately yours, /

R. W. 

LETTER IV.

To Mrs. Saville, England.

August 5th, 17—.

So strange an accident has happened to us, that I cannot forbear recording it, although it is very probable that you will see me before these papers can come into your possession.

Last Monday (July 31st), we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea room in which she floated. Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog. We accordingly lay hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather.

About two o’clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to have no end. Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly attracted our attention, and: diverted our solicitude from our own situation. We perceived a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile: a being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gi- gantic stature, sat in the sledge, and guided the dogs. We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our te- lescopes, until he was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice. This appearance excited our unqua- lified wonder. We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in reality, so. distant as we had supposed. Shut in, however, by ice, it was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the greatest attention.

About. two hours after this occur- rence, we heard the ground sea; and before night the ice broke, and freed our ship. We, however, Jay to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this time to rest for a few hours.

In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck, and found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently talking to some one in the sea. It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night, on a large fragment of ice. Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human being within it, whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel. He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island, but an European. When I ap- peared on deck, the master said, “ Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish on the open sea/’

On perceiving me, the stranger ad- dressed me in English, although with a foreign accent. “ Before I come on board your vessel,” said he, “will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound ?”

You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed to me from a man on the brink of de- struction, and to whom I should have supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which he would not have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford. I replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the northern pole.

Upon hearing this he appeared satis- fied, and consented to come on board. Good God! Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for his safety* your surprise would have been boundless. His limbs were nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering, I never saw a man in so wretched a condition. We attempted to carry him into the cabin; b«t as soon as he had quitted the fresh air, he fainted. We accordingly brought him back to the deck, and restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy, and forcing him to swallow, a small quantity. As soon as he showed signs of life we wrapped him up in blankets, and placed him near the chim- ney of the kitchen-stove. By slow de- grees he recovered, and ate a little soup, which restored him wonderfully.

Two days passed in this manner be- fore he was abl6 to speak; and I often feared that his sufferings hs*d deprived him* of understanding. ; When, he had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin, and attended on him as much as my duty would permit. I never saw a more interesting creature, his eyes have generally an expression of 'wildness, and even madness; but there are moments when, if any one performs an act of kindness towards him, or does him any the most trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with a beam of benevolence and sweetnfess that I never saw equalled. ' But be is generally melancholy and despairing; and sometimes he gnashes his; teeth, as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him.

When my guest was a little recovered, I had great trouble to keep off the men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not allow him to be tormented by their idle curiosity, a state of body and mind whose restoration evidently depended upon en- tire repose. Once, however, the lieu- tenant asked, Why he had come so5 fer upon the ice in so strange a ve-hicle?

His countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom ; and he replied, “To seek one who fled from me.”

“ And did the man whom you pur- sued travel in the same fashion ?”

“ Yes.”

“ Then I fancy we have seen him; for, the day before we picked you up, we saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice.”

This aroused the stranger’s attention; and he asked a multitude of questions concerning the route which the daemon, as he called him, had pursued. Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said,.“ I have, doubtless, excited your curiosity, as well as that of these good people; but you are too considerate to make inquiries.”

“ Certainly; it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman in me to trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine.” “ And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; you have benevolently restored me to life.”

Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the ice had de^ stroyed the other sledge ? I replied, that I could not answer with any degree of certainty; for the ice had not broken until near midnight,, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety before that time.; but of this I could not judge.

From this time the stranger seemed very eager to be upon deck, to watch for the sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the atmosphere. But I have promised that some one should watch for him, and give him instant notice if any new object should appear in sight. Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the present day. The stranger has gradu- ally improved in health, but is very silent, and appears uneasy when any one except myself enters his cabin. Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle, that the sailors are all interested in him, although they have had very little communication with him. For my own part, I begin to love him as a brother; and his constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and com- passion, He must have been a noble creature in his better days, being even now in wreck so attractive and ami- able.

I said in one of my letters, my dear Margaret, that I should find no friend on the wide ocean; yet I have found a man who, before his spirit had been broken by misery, I should have been happy to have possessed as the brother of my heart.

I shall continue my journal concern- ing the stranger at intervals, should I have any fresh incidents to record.

August 13th, 17-—

My affection for my guest increases everyday. He excites at once my ad- - miration and my pity to an astonishing degree. How can I see so noble a crea- ture destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief? He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so culti- vated; and when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art, yet they flow with rapidity and un- paralleled eloquence.

-	He is now much recovered from his illness, and is continually on the deck, apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own. Yet, although un- happy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery, but that he interests himself deeply in the employments of others. He has asked me many ques- tions concerning my design; and I have related my little history frankly to him. He appeared pleased with the confidence, and suggested several alterations in my plan, which I shall find exceedingly useful. There is no pedantry in his manner; but all he does appears to spring solely from the interest he instinctively takes in the welfare of those who surround him. He is often overcome by gloom, and then he sits by himself, and tries to overcome all that is sullen or unsocial in his humour. These paroxysms pass from him like a cloud from before the sun, though his dejection never leaves him; I have endeavoured to win his con- fidence ; and I trust that I have sue- ceeded. One day I mentioned to him the desire I had always felt of finding a friend who might sympathise with me, and direct me by his counsel. I said, I did not belong to that class of men who are offended by advice. “ I am self-educated, and perhaps I hardly rely sufficiently upon my own powers. I wish, therefore, that my companion should be wiser and more experienced than myself, to confirm and support me; nor have I believed it impossible to find a true friend.” •

“ I agree with you,” replied the stranger, “ in believing that friendship is not only a desirable, but a possible acquisition. I once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respect- ing friendship. You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for despair. But I--------------1 have lost every thing, and cannot begin life anew.”	■

As he said this, his countenance be- came expressive of a calm settled grief, that touched me to the heart. But he was silent, and presently retired to his cabin.

Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature. The starry sky, the sea, and every sight afforded by these wonderful regions, seems still to have the power of elevating his soul from earth. Such a man has a double existence: he may suffer misery, and be overwhelmed by disappointments; yet, when he has retired into himself, he will be like a celestial spirit, that has a halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures.

Will you laugh at the enthusiasm I express .concerning this divine wan- derer ? 'If you do, you must have cer- tainly lost. that simplicity which was once your characteristic charm. Yet, if you will, smile at the warmth of my expressions, while I find every dsty new eauses for repeating them.

August 19th, 17—.

Yesterday the stranger said to me,

“ You may easily perceive, Captain . Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes. I had deter- mined, once, that the memory of these evils should die with me; but you have won me to alter my determination. You seek for knowledge and wisdom; as I once did; and I ardently hope that the gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine has been.

I do not know that the relation of my misfortunes will be useful to you ; yet, if you are inclined, listen to my tale. I be- lieve that the strange incidents connected

-	with it will afford a view of nature, which may enlarge your faculties and under- standing. You will hear of powers and occurrences, such as you have been ac- customed to believe impossible: but I do not doubt that my tale conveys in its series internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed.” You may easily conceive that I was much gratified by the offered communi- cation ; yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by a recital of his misfortunes. I felt the greatest eager- ness to hear the promised narrative, partly from curiosity, and partly from a strong desire to ameliorate his fate, if it were in my power. I expressed these feelings in my answer.

“ I thank you,” he replied, “ for your sympathy, but it is useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled. I wait but for one event, and then I shall repose in peace. I understand your feeling,” con- tinued he, perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; “but you are mistaken, my friend, if thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter my destiny: listen to my history, and you will perceive how irrevocably it is de- termined.”

He then told me, that he would com- mence his narrative the next day when I should be at leisure. This promise drew from me the warmest thanks. I have resolved every night, when I am not engaged, to record, as nearly as possible in his own words* what he has related during the day. If I should be engaged, I will at least make notes. This manuscript will doubtless afford von the greatest pleasure: but to me, who know him, and who hear it from his own lips, with what interest and sympathy shall I read it in some future day! 