

We travelled at the time of the
vintage, and heard the song of the
labourers, as we glided down the stream. Even I, depressed in mind, and
my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased. I
lay at the bottom of the boat, and, as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky,
I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger.
And if these were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry? He felt
as if he had been transported to Fairy-land, and enjoyed a happiness
seldom tasted by man. "I have seen," he said, "the most beautiful scenes
of my own country; I have visited the
lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the snowy mountains descend almost
perpendicularly to the water, casting black and impenetrable shades,
which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance, were it not for the
most verdant islands that relieve the eye by their gay appearance; I have
seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore up whirlwinds of
water, and gave you an idea of what the water-spout must be on the great
ocean, and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain, where the
priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche, and where their
dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the nightly
wind; I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud: but
this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders. The
mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange; but there is a
charm in the banks of this divine river, that I never before saw
equalled. Look at that castle which overhangs yon precipice; and that
also on the island, almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely
trees; and now that group of labourers coming from among their vines; and
that village half-hid in the recess of the mountain. Oh, surely, the
spirit that inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man, than
those who pile the glacier, or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the
mountains of our own country."

Clerval! beloved friend! even now it delights me to record your
words, and to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently
deserving. He was a being formed in the "very poetry of nature.*"
His wild and enthusiastic
imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart. His
soul overflowed with ardent affections, and his friendship was of that
devoted and wondrous nature that the worldy-minded teach us to
look for only in the imagination. But even human sympathies were not
sufficient to satisfy his eager mind. The scenery of external nature, which others
regard only with admiration, he loved with ardour:

*  Leigh Hunt's "Rimini."

