

The season of the assizes
approached. I had already been three months in prison; and
although I was still weak, and in continual danger of a relapse,
I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the county-town, where the court
was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of
collecting witnesses, and arranging my defence. I was spared the
disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not
brought before the court that decides on life and death. The
grand jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on
the Orkney Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found,
and a fortnight after my removal I was liberated from prison.

My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the
vexations of a criminal charge, that I was again allowed to
breathe the fresh atmosphere, and allowed to return to my native
country. I did not participate in these feelings; for to me the
walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful. The cup of
life was poisoned for ever; and although the sun shone upon me, as
upon the happy and gay of heart, I saw around me nothing but a
dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by no light but the glimmer of two eyes that
glared upon me. Sometimes they were the expressive eyes of Henry,
languishing in death, the dark orbs nearly covered by the lids,
and the long black lashes that fringed them; sometimes it was the watery clouded eyes of the
monster, as I first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt.

My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He
talked of Geneva, which I should soon visit -- of Elizabeth, and
Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans from me. Sometimes,
indeed, I felt a wish for happiness; and thought, with melancholy
delight, of my beloved cousin; or longed, with a devouring maladie du pays, to see
once more the blue lake
and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early childhood:
but my general state of feeling was a torpor, in which a prison
was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and
these fits were seldom interrupted, but by paroxysms of anguish
and despair. At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the existence I
loathed; and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me from
committing some dreadful act of violence.

