

She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down
the passages of the house, and inspecting every corner that might
afford a retreat to my adversary. But I discovered no trace of
him, and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance
had intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces; when
suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful scream. It came from the
room into which Elizabeth had retired. As I heard it, the whole
truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the motion of every muscle and fibre was
suspended; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins, and
tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This state lasted
but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed into
the room.

Great God! why did I not then expire! Why am I here to relate
the destruction of the best hope, and the purest creature of
earth. She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the
bed, her head hanging down, and her pale and distorted features
half covered by her hair. Everywhere I turn I see the
same figure -- her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the
murderer on its bridal bier. Could I behold this, and live? Alas!
life is obstinate, and clings closest where it is most hated. For
a moment only did I lose recollection; I fainted.

When I recovered, I found myself surrounded by the people of
the inn; their countenances expressed a breathless terror: but
the horror of others appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the
feelings that oppressed me. I escaped from them to the room where
lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my wife, so lately living, so
dear, so worthy. She had been moved from the posture in which I
had first beheld her; and now, as she lay, her head upon her arm,
and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have
supposed her asleep. I rushed towards her, and embraced her with
ardour; but the deathly languor and coldness of the limbs told me,
that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth
whom I had loved and cherished. The murderous mark of the fiend's
grasp was on her neck, and the breath had ceased to issue from
her lips.

