

I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and
storm increased every minute, and the thunder burst
with a
terrific crash over my head. It was echoed from Salêve, the
Juras, and the Alps of Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled
my eyes, illuminating the lake, making it appear like a vast
sheet of fire; then for an instant everything seemed of a pitchy
darkness, until the eye recovered itself from the preceding
flash. The storm, as is often the case in Switzerland, appeared
at once in various parts of the heavens. The most violent storm
hung exactly north of the town, over that part of the lake which
lies between the promontory of Belrive and the
village of Copêt.
Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another
darkened and sometimes disclosed the Môle, a peaked mountain to
the east of the lake.

While I watched the storm, so beautiful yet terrific, I
wandered on with a hasty step. This noble 
war in the sky  elevated my spirits; I clasped my hands, and 
exclaimed aloud, "William, dear angel! this is thy funeral, this thy 
dirge!" As I said these words, I perceived in the gloom a figure which 
stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I stood fixed, gazing 
intently: I could not be mistaken. A flash of lightning illuminated the 
object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its gigantic stature, and the
deformity of its aspect, more hideous than belongs to humanity,
instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy
dæmon, to whom I had given life. What did he there? Could he be (I
shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother? No sooner did 
that idea cross my imagination, than I became convinced of its truth; my 
teeth chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree for support. The 
figure passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom. Nothing in human 
shape could have destroyed that fair child. He was the murderer! I 
could not doubt it. The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible 
proof of the fact. I thought of pursuing the devil; but it would have been
in vain, for another flash discovered him to me hanging among the
rocks of the nearly perpendicular ascent of Mont
Salêve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the south. He soon 
reached the summit, and disappeared.

