

"I spent the winter in this manner. The gentle manners and beauty of the
cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I felt
depressed; when they rejoiced, I
sympathized in their joys. I saw few human beings beside them; and if
any other happened to enter the cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait
only enhanced to me the superior accomplishments of my friends. The old
man, I could perceive, often endeavoured to encourage his children, as
sometimes I found that he called them, to cast off their melancholy. He
would talk in a cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that
bestowed pleasure even upon me. Agatha listened with respect, her eyes
sometimes filled with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away
unperceived; but I generally found that her countenance and tone were more
cheerful after having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not
thus with Felix. He was always the saddest of the groupe; and, even to my
unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his
friends. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more
cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old
man.

"I could mention innumerable instances, which, although slight, marked the
dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of poverty and want,
Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped
out from beneath the snowy ground. Early in the morning before she had
risen, he cleared away the snow that obstructed her path to the
milk-house, drew water from the well, and brought the wood from the
out-house, where, to his perpetual astonishment, he found his store always
replenished by an invisible hand. In the day, I believe, he worked
sometimes for a neighbouring farmer, because he often went forth, and did
not return until dinner, yet brought no wood with him. At other times he
worked in the garden; but, as there was little to do in the frosty season,
he read to the old man and Agatha.

