

The next day we pursued our journey 
upon mules; and as we ascended still higher, the valley assumed a more 
magnificent and astonishing character. Ruined castles hanging on the 
precipices of piny mountains; the impetuous Arve, and cottages every here
and there peeping forth from among the trees, formed a scene of
singular beauty. But it was augmented and rendered sublime by the
mighty Alps, whose white and shining pyramids and domes towered
above all, as belonging to another 
earth, the habitations of another race of beings.

We passed the bridge of Pelissier, where the ravine, which the river
forms, opened before us, and we began to ascend the mountain that
overhangs it. Soon after we entered the
valley of Chamounix. This valley is more wonderful and sublime, but
not so beautiful and picturesque as that of Servox, through which we had
just passed. The high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries;
but we saw no more ruined castles and fertile fields.  Immense glaciers
approached the road; we heard the
rumbling thunder of the falling avelânche, and marked the smoke
of its passage. Mont Blanc, the supreme
and magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles, and its tremendous
dome overlooked the valley.

During this journey, I sometimes joined Elizabeth, and exerted myself to
point out to her the various beauties of the scene.  I often suffered my
mule to lag behind, and indulged in the misery of reflection.  At other
times I spurred on the animal before my companions, that I might forget
them, the world, and, more than all, myself.  When at a distance, I alighted, and threw
myself on the grass, weighed down by
horror and despair.  At eight in the evening I arrived at Chamounix. My father and Elizabeth
were very much fatigued; Ernest, who accompanied us, was delighted, and in
high spirits:  the only circumstance that detracted from his pleasure was
the south wind, and the rain it seemed to promise for the next day.

We retired early to our apartments, but not to sleep; at
least I did not.  I remained many hours at the window, watching
the pallid lightning that played above Mont Blanc, and listening
to the rushing of the Arve, which ran below my window.

