

My father expressed a wish that I should attend a course of lectures upon
natural philosophy, to which I
cheerfully consented. Some accident prevented my attending these
lectures until the course was nearly finished.  The lecture, being
therefore one of the last, was entirely incomprehensible to me. The professor
discoursed with the greatest fluency of potassium and boron, of sulphates
and oxyds, terms to which I could affix no idea; and I became disgusted
with the science of natural philosophy, although I still read Pliny and Buffon with delight, authors, in my
estimation, of nearly equal interest and utility.

My occupations at this age were principally the mathematics, and most of the branches of
study appertaining to that science. I was busily employed in learning
languages; Latin was already familiar to me, and I began to read some of
the easiest Greek authors without the help of a lexicon. I also perfectly understood
English and German.  This is the list of my accomplishments at the age of
seventeen; and you may conceive that my hours were fully employed in
acquiring and maintaining a knowledge of this various literature.

Another task also devolved upon me, when I became the instructor of my
brothers.  Ernest was six years
younger than myself, and was my principal pupil.  He had been afflicted
with ill health from his infancy, through which Elizabeth and I had been
his constant nurses:  his disposition was gentle, but he was incapable of
any severe application.  William,
the youngest of our family, was yet an infant, and the most beautiful
little fellow in the world; his lively blue eyes, dimpled cheeks, and
endearing manners, inspired the tenderest affection.

Such was our domestic circle, from
which care and pain seemed for ever banished.  My father directed our
studies, and my mother partook of our enjoyments.  Neither of us
possessed the slightest pre-eminence
over the other; the voice of
command was never heard amongst us; but mutual affection engaged us
all to comply with and obey the slightest desire of each other.

