

"As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something glittering
on his breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely
woman. In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a
few moments I gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by
deep lashes, and her lovely lips; but presently my rage returned:
I remembered that I was for ever deprived of the delights that
such beautiful creatures could bestow; and that she whose
resemblance I contemplated would, in regarding me, have changed
that air of divine benignity to one expressive of disgust and affright.

"Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage?
I only wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my
sensations in exclamations and agony, I did not rush among
mankind, and perish in the attempt to destroy them.

"While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot
where I had committed the murder, and was seeking a more secluded
hiding-place, when I perceived a woman passing near me.  She was
young, not indeed so beautiful as her whose portrait I held, but
of an agreeable aspect, and blooming in the loveliness of youth
and health. Here, I thought, is one of those whose smiles are
bestowed on all but me; she shall not escape:  thanks to the
lessons of Felix, and the sanguinary laws of man, I have learned
how to work mischief.  I approached her unperceived, and placed
the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress.

"For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place;
sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and its
miseries for ever. At length I wandered towards these mountains, and have
ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning passion which you alone can
gratify. We may not part until you have promised to comply with my
requisition. I am alone, and
miserable;  man will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not
deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species, and have
the same defects. This being you must
create."

