

About this time we retired to our house
at Belrive. This change was particularly agreeable to me. The shutting of the gates regularly at
ten o'clock, and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that
hour, had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome
to me. I was now free. Often, after the rest of the family had retired for
the night, I took the boat, and passed many hours upon the water. Sometimes,
with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and sometimes, after rowing
into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to pursue its own course, and
gave way to my own miserable reflections. I was often tempted, when all
was at peace around me, and I the only unquiet thing that wandered
restless in a scene so beautiful and heavenly, if I except some bat, or
the frogs, whose harsh and interrupted croaking was heard only when I
approached the shore often, I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake,
that the waters might close over me and my calamities for ever. But I was
restrained, when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I
tenderly loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine. I thought also
of my father, and surviving brother:
should I by my base desertion leave them exposed and unprotected to the
malice of the fiend whom I had let
loose among them?

At these moments I wept bitterly, and wished that peace would revisit my
mind only that I might afford them consolation and happiness. But that could not be.  Remorse
extinguished every hope. I had been the author of unalterable evils; and I
lived in daily fear, lest the
monster whom I had created should perpetrate some new wickedness. I
had an obscure feeling that all was not over, and that he would still
commit some signal crime, which by its enormity should almost efface the
recollection of the past. There was always scope for fear, so long as
anything I loved remained behind. My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be
conceived. When I thought of him, I
gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and I ardently wished to extinguish that
life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed. When I reflected on his crimes
and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation. I would have
made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes, could I, when there,
have precipitated him to their base. I wished to see him again, that I
might wreak the utmost extent of anger on his head, and avenge the deaths
of William and Justine.

