

She died calmly; and her countenance expressed affection even in death. I
need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent by
that most irreparable evil, the void that presents itself to the soul, and
the despair that is exhibited on the countenance. It is so long before the
mind can persuade itself that she, whom we 
saw every day, and whose very existence appeared a part of our own, can 
have departed for ever -- that the brightness of a beloved eye can have 
been extinguished, and the sound of a voice so familiar, and dear to the 
ear, can be hushed, never more to be heard. These are the reflections of 
the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the 
evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences. Yet from whom has 
not that rude hand rent away some dear connexion; and why should I 
describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel? The time at length 
arrives, when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and the 
smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a sacrilege, is 
not banished. My mother was dead, but 
we had still duties which we ought 
to perform; we must continue our course with the rest, and learn to think 
ourselves fortunate, whilst one remains whom the spoiler has not seized.

My journey to Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events, was now
again determined upon. I obtained from my father a respite of some weeks.
This period was spent sadly; my mother's death, and my speedy departure,
depressed our spirits; but Elizabeth endeavoured to renew the spirit of
cheerfulness in our little society.  Since the death of her aunt, her mind
had acquired new firmness and vigour.  She determined to fulfil her duties with the greatest
exactness; and she felt that that most imperious duty, of rendering her
uncle and cousins happy, had devolved upon her.  She consoled me, amused
her uncle, instructed my brothers; and I never beheld her so enchanting as
at this time, when she was continually endeavouring to contribute to the
happiness of others, entirely forgetful
of herself.

