

"Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of sorrow
vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of ecstatic
joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his eyes sparkled,
as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I thought him as beautiful as the 
stranger. She
appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from her
lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously,
and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian. She did
not appear to understand him, but smiled. He assisted her to dismount,
and, dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage. Some
conversation took place between him and his father; and the young stranger
knelt at the old man's feet, and would have kissed his hand, but he raised
her, and embraced her affectionately.

"I soon perceived, that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds,
and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood by, or herself
understood, the cottagers. They made many signs which I did not
comprehend; but I saw that her presence diffused gladness through the
cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists.
Felix seemed peculiarly happy, and with smiles of delight welcomed his
Arabian. Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed the hands of the lovely
stranger; and, pointing to her brother, made signs which appeared to me to
mean that he had been sorrowful until she came. Some hours passed thus,
while they, by their countenances, expressed joy, the cause of which I did
not comprehend. Presently I found, by the frequent recurrence of one sound
which the stranger repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn
their language; and the idea instantly occurred to me, that I should make use of the same instructions
to the same end. The stranger learned about twenty words at the first
lesson, most of them indeed were those which I had before understood, but
I profited by the others.

