

In this description of our domestic
circle I include Henry Clerval; for he was constantly with us.  He
went to school with me, and generally passed the afternoon at our house:
for being an only child, and destitute of companions at home, his father
was well pleased that he should find associates at our house; and we were
never completely happy when Clerval was absent.

I feel pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood, before
misfortune had tainted my mind, and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and
narrow reflections upon self. But,
in drawing the picture of my early days, I must not omit to record those
events which led, by insensible steps to my after tale of misery: for when
I would account to myself for the birth of that passion, which afterwards
ruled my destiny, I find it arise,
like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten sources; but,
swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in its course, has
swept away all my hopes and joys.

Natural philosophy is the genius
that has regulated my fate; I desire therefore, in this narration, to
state those facts which led to my predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of
age, we all went on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon: the inclemency of the weather
obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn. In this house I chanced to
find a volume of the works of Cornelius
Agrippa. I opened it with apathy; the theory which he attempts to
demonstrate, and the wonderful facts which he relates, soon changed this
feeling into enthusiasm. A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind; and,
bounding with joy, I communicated my discovery to my father. I cannot help remarking here the
many opportunities instructors possess of directing the attention of their
pupils to useful knowledge, which they utterly neglect.  My father looked
carelessly at the title-page of my book, and said, "Ah! Cornelius Agrippa!
My dear Victor, do not waste your time upon this; it is sad trash."

