

I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not
in deed, but in effect, was the true murderer. Elizabeth read my
anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand said, "My
dearest cousin, you must calm yourself. These events have affected
me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are.
There is an expression of despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance, that 
makes me tremble.  Be calm, my dear Victor; I would sacrifice my life to 
your peace.  We surely shall be happy:  quiet in our native country, and 
not mingling in the world, what can 
disturb our tranquillity?"

She shed tears as she said this, distrusting the very solace
that she gave; but at the same time she smiled, that she might
chase away the fiend that lurked in my heart.  My
father, who saw
in the unhappiness that was painted in my face only an
exaggeration of that sorrow which I might naturally feel, thought
that an amusement suited to my taste would be the best means of
restoring to me my wonted serenity.  It was from this cause that
he had removed to the country; and, induced by the same motive,
he now proposed that we should all make an excursion to the
valley of Chamounix.  I had been 
there before, but Elizabeth and Ernest never had; and both had often 
expressed an earnest desire to see the scenery of this place, which had 
been described to them as so wonderful and sublime.  Accordingly we 
departed from Geneva on this tour about the middle of the month of August,
nearly two months after the death of Justine.

The weather was uncommonly fine; and if mine had been a sorrow to be
chased away by any fleeting circumstance, this excursion would certainly
have had the effect intended by my father.  As it was, I was somewhat
interested in the scene; it sometimes lulled, although it could not
extinguish my grief. During the first day we travelled in a carriage.  In
the morning we had seen the mountains at a distance, towards which we
gradually advanced.  We perceived that the valley through which we wound, and
which was formed by the river Arve,
whose course we followed, closed in upon us by degrees; and when the sun
had set, we beheld immense 
mountains and precipices overhanging us on every side, and heard the 
sound of the river raging among rocks, and the dashing of waterfalls 
around.

