

"And now I must tell you a story that will please, and perhaps amuse you. 
Do you not remember Justine Moritz?  Probably you do not; I will relate
her history, therefore, in a few words. Madame Moritz, her mother, was a
widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third. This girl had
always been the favourite of her father; but, through a strange
perversity, her mother could not endure
her, and, after the death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt
observed this; and, when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her
mother to allow her to live at her house. The republican institutions of our country
have produced simpler and happier manners than those which prevail in the
great monarchies that surround it.
Hence there is less distinction between the several classes of its
inhabitants; and the lower orders being neither so poor nor so despised,
their manners are more refined and moral. A servant in Geneva does not mean the same
thing as a servant in France and England. Justine, thus received in
our family, learned the duties of a servant; a condition which, in our
fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance, and a sacrifice
of the dignity of a human being.

"After what I have said, I dare say you well remember the heroine of my
little tale:  for Justine was a great favourite of your's; and I recollect
you once remarked, that if you were in an ill humour, one glance from
Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of
Angelica -- she looked so frank-hearted and happy. My aunt conceived a
great attachment for her, by which she
was induced to give her an education superior to that which she had at
first intended. This benefit was fully repaid; Justine was the most
grateful little creature in the world: I do not mean that she made any
professions, I never heard one pass her lips; but you could see by her
eyes that she almost adored her protectress. Although her disposition was
gay, and in many respects inconsiderate, yet she paid the greatest
attention to every gesture of my aunt. She thought her the model of all
excellence, and endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners, so
that even now she often reminds me of
her.

