

I then thought that my father would be
unjust if he ascribed my neglect to vice, or faultiness on my part;
but I am now convinced that he was justified in conceiving that I should
not be altogether free from blame. A
human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and peaceful
mind, and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to disturb his
tranquillity. I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge is an exception to
this rule. If the study to which you apply yourself has a tendency to
weaken your affections, and to destroy your taste for those simple
pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that study is certainly
unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human mind. If this rule were
always observed; if no man allowed any pursuit whatsoever to interfere
with the tranquillity of his domestic
affections, Greece had not been enslaved; Caesar would have spared his
country; America would have been discovered more gradually; and the
empires of Mexico and Peru had not been
destroyed.

But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my tale; and
your looks remind me to proceed.

My father made no reproach in his letters; and only took notice of my
silence by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before.
Winter, spring, and summer passed away during my labours; but I did not
watch the blossom or the expanding leaves -- sights which before always
yielded me supreme delight, so deeply was I engrossed in my occupation.
The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near to a close;
and now every day shewed me more plainly how well I had succeeded. But my
enthusiasm was checked by my
anxiety, and I appeared rather like one doomed by slavery to toil in the mines,
or any other unwholesome trade, than an artist occupied by his favourite
employment. Every night I was oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a
most painful degree; a disease that I regretted the more because I had
hitherto enjoyed most excellent health, and had always boasted of the
firmness of my nerves.  But I believed that exercise and amusement would
soon drive away such symptoms; and I promised myself both of these, when
my creation should be complete.

