

The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings of
human nature. I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole purpose
of infusing life into an inanimate body. For this I had deprived myself of
rest and health. I had desired it with an ardour that far exceeded moderation;
but now that I had finished, the beauty of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled
my heart. Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I rushed
out of the room, and continued a long time traversing my bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep. At
length lassitude succeeded to the tumult I had before endured; and I threw
myself on the bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of
forgetfulness. But it was in vain: I slept indeed, but I was disturbed by
the wildest dreams. I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health,
walking in the streets of Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced
her; but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with
the hue of death; her features appeared to change, and I thought that I
held the corpse of my dead mother in
my arms; a shroud enveloped her form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling
in the folds of the flannel. I started from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered my forehead, my teeth
chattered, and every limb became convulsed; when, by the dim and yellow
light of the moon, as it forced its way through the window-shutters, I
beheld the wretch -- the miserable
monster whom I had created. He held up the curtain of the bed; and his
eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me. His jaws opened, and
he muttered some inarticulate sounds,
while a grin wrinkled his cheeks. He might have spoken, but I did not
hear; one hand was stretched out,
seemingly to detain me, but I
escaped, and rushed down stairs. I took refuge in the court-yard belonging
to the house which I inhabited; where I remained during the rest of the
night, walking up and down in the greatest agitation, listening
attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the
approach of the demoniacal corpse
to which I had so miserably given life.

