

It was in the latter end of
August that I departed, to pass two years of exile. Elizabeth
approved of the reasons of my departure, and only regretted that she had not the
same opportunities of enlarging her experience, and cultivating
her understanding.  She wept, however, as she bade me
farewell, and entreated me to return happy and tranquil.  "We
all," said she, "depend upon you; and if you are miserable, what
must be our feelings?"

I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away,
hardly knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing
around.  I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish
that I reflected on it, to order that my chemical instruments
should be packed to go with me:  for I resolved to fulfil my
promise while abroad, and return, if possible, a free man. Filled with dreary
imaginations, I passed through many beautiful and majestic
scenes; but my eyes were fixed and unobserving. I could only
think of the bourne of my
travels, and the work which was to occupy me whilst they
endured.

After some days spent in listless
indolence, during which I traversed many leagues, I arrived at
Strasburgh, where I waited two days for Clerval. He came. Alas, how great
was the contrast between us! He was alive to every new scene; joyful when
he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it
rise, and recommence a new day. He pointed out to me the shifting colours
of the landscape, and the appearances of the sky. "This is what it is to
live," he cried, "now I enjoy existence! But you, my dear Frankenstein,
wherefore are you desponding and sorrowful?" In truth, I was occupied by
gloomy thoughts, and neither saw the descent of the evening star, nor the
golden sun-rise reflected in the Rhine. -- And you, my friend, would be far more amused
with the journal of Clerval, who
observed the scenery with an eye of feeling and delight, than to listen
to my reflections. I, a miserable
wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to enjoyment.

