

One of the phænomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was
the structure of the human frame, 
and, indeed, any animal endued with life. Whence, I often asked myself, 
did the principle of life proceed? It was a bold question, and one which 
has ever been considered as a mystery; yet with how many things are we 
upon the brink of becoming acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not
restrain our inquiries. I revolved these circumstances in my mind, and
determined thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches
of natural philosophy which relate to physiology. Unless I had been
animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application to this
study would have been irksome, and almost intolerable. To examine the
causes of life, we must first have recourse to death. I became acquainted
with the science of anatomy: but
this was not sufficient; I must also observe the natural decay and
corruption of the human body. In my education my father had taken the
greatest precautions that my mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors. I do not ever
remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition, or to have feared the
apparition of a spirit. Darkness had no effect upon my fancy; and a
churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of life,
which, from being the seat of beauty and strength, had become food for the
worm. Now I was led to examine the cause
and progress of this decay, and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and charnel houses. My attention 
was fixed upon every object the most insupportable to the delicacy of the 
human feelings. I saw how the fine form of
man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of death succeed
to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm inherited the wonders of
the eye and brain. I paused, examining and analysing all the minutiae of
causation, as exemplified in the change from life to death, and death to
life, until from the midst of this darkness a sudden light broke in upon
me -- a light so brilliant and wondrous, yet so simple, that while I
became dizzy with the immensity of the prospect which it illustrated, I
was surprised that among so many men of genius, who had directed their
inquiries towards the same science, that I alone should be reserved to
discover so astonishing a secret.

