

"I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I see no
room for hope. I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined
concerning my character; and if their testimony shall not
overweigh my supposed guilt, I must be condemned, although I
would pledge my salvation on my innocence."

Several witnesses were called, who had known her for many
years, and they spoke well of her; but fear, and hatred of the
crime of which they supposed her guilty, rendered them timorous,
and unwilling to come forward. Elizabeth saw even this last
resource, her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct,
about to fail the accused, when, although violently agitated, she
desired permission to address the court.

"I am," said she, "the cousin of the unhappy child who was
murdered, or rather his sister, for I was educated by and have
lived with his parents ever since and even long before his
birth. It may therefore be judged indecent in me to come
forward on this occasion; but when I see a fellow-creature about
to perish through the cowardice of her pretended friends, I wish
to be allowed to speak, that I may say what I know of her
character. I am well acquainted with the accused. I have lived in
the same house with her, at one time for five, and
at another for
nearly two years. During all that period she appeared to me the
most amiable and benevolent of human creatures. She
nursed Madame
Frankenstein, my aunt, in her last illness with the greatest
affection and care; and afterwards attended her own mother during
a tedious illness, in a manner that excited the admiration of all
who knew her. After which she again lived in my uncle's house,
where she was beloved by all the family. She was warmly attached
to the child who is now dead, and acted towards him like a most
affectionate mother. For my own part, I do not hesitate to say,
that, notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I
believe and rely on her perfect innocence. She had no temptation
for such an action: as to the bauble on which the
chief proof
rests, if she had earnestly desired it, I should have willingly
given it to her; so much do I esteem and value her."

