

"I discovered also another means through which I was enabled
to assist their labours. I found that the youth spent a great
part of each day in collecting wood for the family fire; and,
during the night, I often took his tools, the use of which I
quickly discovered, and brought home firing sufficient for the
consumption of several days.

"I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman,
when she opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly
astonished on seeing a great pile of wood on the outside. She
uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who
also expressed surprise. I observed, with pleasure, that he did
not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the
cottage, and cultivating the garden.

"By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment. I found that these
people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings
to one another by articulate sounds. I perceived that the words they spoke
sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the minds and
countenances of the hearers. This was indeed a godlike science, and I ardently desired to become
acquainted with it. But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this
purpose. Their pronunciation was quick; and the words they uttered, not
having any apparent connexion with visible objects, I was unable to
discover any clue by which I could unravel the mystery of their reference.
By great application, however, and after having remained during the space
of several revolutions of the moon in
my hovel, I discovered the names that
were given to some of the most familiar objects of discourse; I learned
and applied the words fire, milk, bread, and
wood. I learned also the names
of the cottagers themselves. The youth and his companion had each of
them several names, but the old man had only one, which was father.
The girl was called sister, or Agatha; and the youth
Felix, brother, or son. I cannot describe the delight
I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds, and
was able to pronounce them. I distinguished several other words, without
being able as yet to understand or apply
them; such as good, dearest, unhappy.

