

This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the
threat of the fiend -- "I will be with you on your
wedding-night!" Such was my sentence, and on that night
would the dæmon employ every art to destroy me, and tear me
from the glimpse of happiness which promised partly to console my
sufferings. On that night he had determined to consummate his
crimes by my death. Well, be it so; a deadly struggle would then
assuredly take place, in which if he was victorious, I should
be at peace, and his power over me be at an end. If he were
vanquished, I should be a free man. Alas! what freedom? such as
the peasant enjoys when his
family have been massacred before his eyes, his cottage burnt,
his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless,
pennyless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty, except
that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure; alas! balanced by
those horrors of remorse and guilt, which would pursue me until
death.

Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and re-read her letter,
and some softened feelings stole into my heart, and dared to
whisper paradisaical dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and
the angel's arm bared to drive me from all hope. Yet I would die
to make her happy. If the monster executed his threat, death was
inevitable; yet, again, I considered whether my marriage would
hasten my fate. My destruction might indeed arrive a few months
sooner; but if my torturer should suspect that I postponed it,
influenced by his menaces, he would surely find other, and
perhaps more dreadful means of revenge. He had vowed to be
with me on my wedding-night, yet he did not consider that
threat as binding him to peace in the mean time; for, as if to
shew me that he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered
Clerval immediately after the enunciation of his threats. I
resolved, therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin
would conduce either to her's or my father's happiness, my
adversary's designs against my life should not retard it a single
hour.

