

"On examining my dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the cottage
had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been filled up with
wood. In one of these was a small and almost imperceptible chink, through
which the eye could just penetrate.  Through this crevice, a small room
was visible, white-washed and clean, but very bare of furniture. In one corner,
near a small fire, sat an old man, leaning his head on his hands in a
disconsolate attitude. The young girl was occupied in arranging the
cottage; but presently she took something out of a drawer, which
employed her hands, and she sat down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play, and to
produce sounds, sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the nightingale. 
It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor
wretch! who had never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and
benevolent countenance of the aged cottager, won my reverence; while the
gentle manners of the girl enticed my love. He played a sweet mournful
air, which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion,
of which the old man took no notice,
until she sobbed audibly; he then pronounced a few sounds, and the fair
creature, leaving her work, knelt at his feet. He raised her, and smiled
with such kindness and affection, that I felt sensations of a peculiar and
over-powering nature: they were a mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I
had never before experienced, either from hunger or cold, warmth or food;
and I withdrew from the window, unable to bear these emotions.

"Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on his shoulders a load
of wood. The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of his
burden, and, taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on the
fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage, and he
shewed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese. She seemed pleased, and went into the
garden for some roots and plants,
which she placed in water, and then upon the fire. She afterwards
continued her work, whilst the young man went into the garden, and
appeared busily employed in digging and pulling up roots. After he had
been employed thus about an hour, the young woman joined him, and they
entered the cottage together.

