

Remember, I am not recording the vision
of a madman. The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens,
than that which I now affirm is true. Some miracle might have produced it,
yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable. After days and nights of incredible labour and
fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of generation and life; 
nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing animation upon lifeless
matter.

The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery soon
gave place to delight and rapture.
After so much time spent in painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires, was the most
gratifying consummation of my toils. But this discovery was so great
and overwhelming, that all the steps by which I had been progressively led
to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the result. What had been the
study and desire of the wisest men since the creation of the world, was
now within my grasp. Not that, like a magic scene, it all opened upon me at
once: the information I had obtained was of a nature rather to direct my
endeavours so soon as I should point them towards the object of my search,
than to exhibit that object already accomplished. I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the
dead, and found a passage to life aided only by one glimmering, and
seemingly ineffectual, light.

I see by your eagerness, and the
wonder and hope which your eyes express, my friend, that you expect to be
informed of the secret with which I am acquainted; that cannot be: listen
patiently until the end of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am
reserved upon that subject. I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was, to your
destruction and infallible misery. Learn from me, if not by my precepts,
at least by my example, how dangerous
is the acquirement of knowledge, and how much happier that man is who
believes his native town to be the world, than he who aspires to become
greater than his nature will
allow.

