

I performed the first part of my journey on horseback. I afterwards  
hired a mule, as the more sure-footed, and least liable to receive  
injury on these rugged roads. The weather was fine: it was about the  
middle of the month of August, nearly two months after the death of  
Justine; that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe. The  
weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper  
in the ravine of Arve. The immense mountains and precipices that  
overhung me on every side -- the sound of the river raging among the  
rocks, and the dashing of the waterfalls around, spoke of a power mighty as Omnipotence -- and 
I ceased to fear, or to bend before any being less almighty than that which 
had created and ruled the elements, here displayed in their most terrific 
guise. Still, as I ascended higher, the valley assumed a more magnificent and
astonishing character. Ruined castles hanging on the precipices
of piny mountains; the impetuous Arve, and cottages every here
and there peeping forth from among the trees, formed a scene of
singular beauty. But it was augmented and rendered sublime by the
mighty Alps, whose white and shining pyramids and domes towered
above all, as belonging to another earth, the
habitations of
another race of beings.

I passed the bridge of Pelissier, where the ravine, which the river forms,
opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that overhangs it.
Soon after I entered the valley of
Chamounix. This valley is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful
and picturesque as that of Servox, through which I had just passed. The
high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries; but I saw no more
ruined castles and fertile fields. Immense glaciers approached the road; I
heard the rumbling thunder of the
falling avalanche, and marked the smoke of its passage. Mont Blanc, the supreme and magnificent Mont Blanc,
raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles, and its tremendous
dôme overlooked the valley.

A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this
journey. Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and
recognised, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the
light-hearted gaiety of boyhood. The very winds whispered in soothing
accents, and maternal nature bade me weep no more. Then again the kindly
influence ceased to act -- I found myself fettered again to grief, and
indulging in all the misery of reflection. Then I spurred on my animal,
striving so to forget the world, my fears, and, more than all, myself --
or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted, and threw myself on the
grass, weighed down by horror and
despair.

At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix. Exhaustion succeeded to the
extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured.  For a short
space of time I remained at the window, watching the pallid lightnings
that played above Mont Blanc, and listening to the rushing of the Arve,
which pursued its noisy way beneath. The same lulling sounds acted as a
lullaby to my too keen sensations:  when I placed my head upon my pillow,
sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came, and blest the giver of
oblivion.

