

"When the news reached Leghorn, that Felix was deprived of his wealth and rank, the
merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her lover, but to
prepare to return to her native country. The generous nature of Safie was
outraged by this command; she attempted to expostulate with her father,
but he left her angrily, reiterating his tyrannical mandate.

"A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter's apartment, and told her
hastily, that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn had
been divulged, and that he should speedily be delivered up to the French
government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to
Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours. He intended
to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential servant, to follow
at her leisure with the greater part of
his property, which had not yet arrived at Leghorn.

"When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of
conduct that it would become her to pursue in this emergency. A
residence in Turkey was abhorrent to her; her religion and her
feelings were alike adverse to it. By some papers of her father,
which fell into her hands, she heard of the exile of her lover,
and learnt the name of the spot where he then resided. She
hesitated some time, but at length she formed her determination.
Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her, and a sum of
money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn,
but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed
for Germany.

"She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage of
De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill. Safie nursed her with the most devoted
affection; but the poor girl died,
and the Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the
country, and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world. She fell,
however, into good hands. The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot
for which they were bound; and, after her death, the woman of the house in
which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at the
cottage of her lover.

