

"As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something glittering
on his breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely
woman. In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a
few moments I gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by
deep lashes, and her lovely lips; but presently my rage returned:
I remembered that I was for ever deprived of the delights that
such beautiful creatures could bestow; and that she whose
resemblance I contemplated would, in regarding me, have changed
that air of divine benignity to one expressive of disgust and affright.

"Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage?
I only wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my
sensations in exclamations and agony, I did not rush among
mankind, and perish in the attempt to destroy them.

"While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had
committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-place, I entered
a barn which had appeared to me to be empty. A woman was sleeping on some
straw; she was young: not indeed so beautiful as her whose portrait I
held; but of an agreeable aspect, and blooming in the loveliness of youth
and health. Here, I thought, is one of those whose joy-imparting smiles
are bestowed on all but me.  And then I bent over her, and whispered
"Awake, fairest, thy lover is near -- he who would give his life but to
obtain one look of affection from thine eyes: my beloved, awake!"

"The sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me. Should she  
indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer?  
Thus would she assuredly act, if her darkened eyes opened, and she  
beheld me. The thought was madness; it stirred the fiend within me  
not I, but she shall suffer: the murder I have committed because I am  
for ever robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone. The  
crime had its source in her: be hers the punishment!  Thanks to the
lessons of Felix, and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned
now to work mischief.  I bent over her, and placed
the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress.  She moved again,
and I fled.

"For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place;
sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and its
miseries for ever. At length I wandered towards these mountains, and have
ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning passion which you alone can
gratify. We may not part until you have promised to comply with my
requisition. I am alone, and
miserable;  man will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not
deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species, and have
the same defects. This being you must
create."

