

I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not
in deed, but in effect, was the true murderer. Elizabeth read my
anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand said, "My
dearest friend, you must calm yourself. These events have affected
me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are.
There is an expression of despair, and sometimes of revenge, in
your countenance, that makes me tremble.  Dear Victor, banish  
these dark passions. Remember the friends around you, who centre all  
their hopes in you. Have we lost the power of rendering you happy?  
Ah! while we love -- while we are true to each other, here in this  
land of peace and beauty, your native country, we may reap every  
tranquil blessing, -- what
can disturb our peace?"

And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every  
other gift of fortune, suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in  
my heart? Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror; lest  
at that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her.
Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth, nor  
of heaven, could redeem my soul from woe: the very accents of love  
were ineffectual. I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial  
influence could penetrate. The wounded deer dragging its fainting  
limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had  
pierced it, and to die -- was but a type of me.

Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me: but
sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek, by bodily
exercise and hy change of place, some relief from my intolerable
sensations. It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left my home, and bending
my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought in the magnificence, the
eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and my ephemeral, because human,
sorrows. My wanderings were directed towards the valley of Chamounix. I had visited it
frequently during my boyhood. Six years had passed since then: I
was a wreck -- but nought had changed in those savage and enduring
scenes.

