

There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but
this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted
affection. There was a sense of
justice in my father's upright mind, which rendered it necessary that
he should approve highly to love strongly.  Perhaps during former years he
had suffered from the late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved, and so
was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth. There was a show of
gratitude and worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly
from the doating fondness of age, for it was inspired by reverence for her
virtues, and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing her
for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace to his
behaviour to her. Every thing was made to yield to her wishes and her
convenience. He strove to shelter her, as
a fair exotic is sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind,
and to surround her with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion
in her soft and benevolent mind. Her health, and even the tranquillity of
her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone
through. During the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage
my father had gradually relinquished all his public functions; and
immediately after their union they
sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change of scene and
interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders, as a
restorative for her weakened frame.

From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest child,
was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their
rambles. I remained for several years their only child. Much as they      
were attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores
of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me. My
mother's tender caresses, and my father's smile of benevolent
pleasure while regarding me, are my first recollections. I was their      
plaything and their idol, and something better -- their child, the
innocent and helpless creature bestowed on them by Heaven, whom to 
bring up to good, and whose future lot it was in their hands to
direct to happiness or misery, according as they fulfilled their
duties towards me. With this deep consciousness of what they owed
towards the being to which they had given life, added to the active
spirit of tenderness that animated both, it may be imagined that
while during every hour of my infant life I received a lesson of
patience, of charity, and of self-control, I was so guided 
by a silken cord, that all seemed but one train of enjoyment to me.

For a long time I was their only care. My mother had much desire
to have a daughter, but I continued their single offspring. When I was 
about five years old, while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of  
Italy, they passed a week on the 
shores of the Lake of Como. Their
benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor.
This, to my mother, was more than a duty; it was a necessity, a passion,
-- remembering what she had suffered, and how she had been relieved, --  
for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the afflicted. During one
of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a vale attracted their
notice, as being singularly disconsolate, while the number of half-clothed
children gathered about it, spoke of penury in its worst shape. One day,
when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother, accompanied by me,
visited this abode.  She found a peasant and his wife, hard working, bent 
down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to five hungry babes.
Among these there was one which attracted my mother far above all the
rest. She appeared of a different stock. The four others were dark-eyed,
hardy little vagrants; this child was thin, and very fair. Her hair was
the brightest living gold, and, despite the poverty of her clothing,      
seemed to set a crown of distinction on her head. Her brow was clear and
ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of her face
so expressive of sensibility and 
sweetness, that none could behold her
without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven-sent, and 
bearing a celestial stamp in all her features.

The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and
admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was
not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman. Her mother was a
German, and had died on giving her birth. The infant had been placed with
these good people to nurse: they were better off then. They had not been
long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of
their charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique
glory of Italy, -- one among the schiavi ognor frementi, who
exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country. He became the victim
of its weakness. Whether he had died, or still lingered in the dungeons of
Austria, was not known.  His property was confiscated, his child became an
orphan and a beggar. She continued with her foster parents, and bloomed in
their rude abode, fairer than a garden rose among dark-leaved brambles.

