

Such were the professor's words -- rather let me say such the words of fate, enounced to destroy 
me. As he went on, I felt as if my soul were  
grappling with a palpable enemy; one by 
one the various keys were touched which formed the mechanism of my being: 
chord after chord was sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, 
one conception, one purpose. So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of  
Frankenstein, -- more, far more, will I achieve: treading in the  
steps already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown  
powers, and unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation.

I closed not my eyes that night. My internal being was in a state of insurrection and turmoil; 
I felt that order would thence arise, but I had no power to produce it. 
By degrees, after the morning's dawn, sleep came. I awoke, and my 
yesternight's thoughts were as a dream. There only remained a resolution 
to return to my ancient studies, and to devote myself to a science for 
which I believed myself to possess a natural talent. On the same day, I 
paid M. Waldman a visit. His manners in private were even more mild and
attractive than in public; for there was a certain dignity in his mien
during his lecture, which in his own house was replaced by the greatest
affability and kindness. I gave him pretty nearly the same account of my 
former pursuits as I had given to his fellow-professor. He heard with 
attention the little narration concerning my studies, and smiled at the 
names of Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt
that M. Krempe had exhibited. He said, that "these were men to whose
indefatigable zeal modern philosophers were indebted for most of the
foundations of their knowledge. They had left to us, as an easier task, to
give new names, arrange in connected
classifications, the facts which they in a great degree had been the
instruments of bringing to light. The labours of men of genius, however
erroneously directed, scarcely ever fail in ultimately turning to the
solid advantage of mankind." I listened to his statement, which was
delivered without any presumption or affectation; and then added, that his
lecture had removed my prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself 
in measured terms, with the modesty and deference due from a youth to 
his instructor, without letting escape (inexperience in life would have  
made me ashamed) any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended  
labours. I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to
procure.

"I am happy," said M. Waldman, "to have gained a disciple; and if your
application equals your ability, I have no doubt of your success. Chemistry is that branch of natural
philosophy in which the greatest improvements have been and may be
made; it is on that account that I have made it my peculiar study; but at
the same time I have not neglected the other branches of science. A man
would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that department of
human knowledge alone. If your wish is to become really a man of science,
and not merely a petty experimentalist, I should advise you to apply to
every branch of natural philosophy, including mathematics."

