

If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to
me, that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded, and that 
a
modern system of science had been introduced, which possessed much 
greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while those of the former
were real and practical; under such circumstances, I should certainly have
thrown Agrippa aside, and have contented my imagination, warmed as it was,
by returning with greater ardour to my former studies. It is even
possible, that the train of my ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin. But
the cursory glance my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me
that he was acquainted with its contents; and I continued to read with the
greatest avidity.
   
When I returned home, my first care was to procure the whole works of this
author, and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus. I read and studied
the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me
treasures known to few beside myself; and I have described myself as
always having been embued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature. In spite of the
intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern philosophers, I always
came from my studies discontented and unsatisfied. Sir Isaac Newton is
said to have avowed that he felt like a
child picking up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of
truth. Those of his successors in each branch of natural philosophy with
whom I was acquainted, appeared even to my boy's apprehensions, as tyros
engaged in the same pursuit.

The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him, and was
acquainted with their practical uses. The most learned philosopher
knew little more. He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but  
her immortal lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery. He might  
dissect, anatomise, and give names; but, not to speak of a final   
cause, causes in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly  
unknown to him. I had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments
that seemed to keep human beings from entering the citadel of nature,
and rashly and ignorantly I had repined.

