

"These were the reflections of my hours of despondency and solitude; but
when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and benevolent dispositions, I persuaded 
myself that when they should become acquainted with my admiration of 
their virtues, they would compassionate me, and overlook my personal 
deformity. Could they turn from their door one, however monstrous, who 
solicited their compassion and friendship? I resolved, at least, not to 
despair, but in every way to fit myself for an interview with them which 
would decide my fate. I postponed 
this attempt for some months longer; for the importance attached to its 
success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail. Besides, I found 
that my understanding improved so much with every day's experience, that 
I was unwilling to commence this undertaking until a few more months 
should have added to my sagacity.

"Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. The presence
of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants; and I also found that
a greater degree of plenty reigned
there. Felix and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation, and
were assisted in their labours by servants. They did not appear rich, but
they were contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful,
while mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase of knowledge only discovered to
me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I cherished hope, it is
true; but it vanished, when I beheld my person reflected in water, or my
shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail image and that inconstant
shade.

"I endeavoured to crush these fears, and to fortify myself for the trial
which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed my
thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and
dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathising with my feelings
and cheering my gloom; their angelic countenances breathed smiles of
consolation. But it was all a dream: 
no Eve soothed my sorrows, nor shared my thoughts; I was alone. I
remembered Adam's supplication to
his Creator; but where was mine?  He had abandoned me; and, in the
bitterness of my heart, I cursed him.

