

"But 'Paradise Lost' excited
different and far deeper emotions. I read it, as I had read the other
volumes which had fallen into my hands, as a true history. It moved every feeling
of wonder and awe, that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his
creatures was capable of exciting. I often referred the several
situations, as their similarity struck me, to my own. Like Adam, I was apparently united by no
link to any other being in existence; but his state was far different from
mine in every other respect. He had come forth from the hands of God a
perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of
his Creator; he was allowed to converse with, and acquire knowledge from,
beings of a superior nature: but I was wretched, helpless, and alone. Many
times I considered Satan as the fitter
emblem of my condition; for often, like
him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter gall of envy
rose within me.

"Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings. Soon
after my arrival in the hovel, I discovered some papers in the pocket of
the dress which I had taken from your laboratory. At first I had neglected
them; but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they
were written, I began to study them with diligence. It was your journal of the four months that
preceded my creation. You minutely described in these papers every step
you took in the progress of your work; this history was mingled with
accounts of domestic occurrences. You, doubtless, recollect these papers.  
Here they are. Every thing is related in them which bears reference to my
accursed origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting
circumstances which produced it, is set in view; the minutest description
of my odious and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your
own horrors, and rendered mine indelible. I sickened as I read. 'Hateful day when I received life!' I
exclaimed in agony.  'Accursed creator! Why did you form a monster so
hideous that even you turned from me in disgust? God, in pity, made
man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more
horrid even from the very resemblance. Satan had his companions,
fellow-devils, to admire and encourage him; but I am solitary and abhorred.'

