

"How can I move thee? Will no
entreaties cause thee to turn a favourable eye upon thy creature, who
implores thy goodness and compassion? Believe me, Frankenstein: I was benevolent; my soul glowed with
love and humanity: but am I not alone, miserably alone? You, my
creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow-creatures, who
owe me nothing? they spurn and hate me. The desert mountains and dreary glaciers
are my refuge. I have wandered here many days; the caves of ice, which I
only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the only one which man does
not grudge. These bleak skies I hail, for they are kinder to me than your
fellow-beings. If the multitude of
mankind knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm
themselves for my destruction. Shall I not then hate them who abhor me? I will keep no terms with my enemies.
I am miserable, and they shall share my
wretchedness. Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver
them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that not only you and your family, but
thousands of others, shall be swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage.
Let your compassion be moved, and do not disdain me. Listen to my tale:
when you have heard that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge
that I deserve. But hear me. The guilty
are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they are, to speak in their own
defence before they are condemned. Listen to me, Frankenstein. You accuse me of murder; and yet you
would, with a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise
the eternal justice of man! Yet I ask you not to spare me: listen to me;
and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy the work of your hands."

"Why do you call to my remembrance," I rejoined, "circumstances, of which
I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and author?
Cursed be the day, abhorred devil,
in which you first saw light! Cursed
(although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you! You have made me wretched beyond
expression. You have left me no
power to consider whether I am just to you, or not. Begone! relieve me
from the sight of your detested form."

