

In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth. My letter was
calm and affectionate. "I fear, my beloved girl," I said, "little
happiness remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day
enjoy is centred in you. Chase away your idle fears; to you
alone do I consecrate my life, and my endeavours for contentment.
I have one secret, Elizabeth, a dreadful one; when revealed to
you, it will chill your frame with horror, and then, far from
being surprised at my misery, you will only wonder that I survive
what I have endured. I will confide this tale of misery and
terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place; for,
my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us. But
until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it. This I
most earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply."

In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth's letter, we returned
to Geneva.  The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection;
yet tears were in her eyes, as she beheld my emaciated frame and
feverish cheeks. I saw a change in her also. She was thinner, and had lost
much of that heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me; but
her gentleness, and soft looks of compassion, made her a more fit
companion for one blasted and
miserable as I was.

The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory
brought madness with it; and when I thought of what had passed,
a real insanity possessed
me; sometimes I was furious, and burnt with rage; sometimes
low and despondent. I neither spoke, nor looked at any one, but sat
motionless, bewildered by the multitude of miseries that overcame
me.

Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her
gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion, and
inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor. She wept with
me, and for me. When reason returned, she would remonstrate, and
endeavour to inspire me with resignation. Ah! it is well for the
unfortunate to be resigned, but for the guilty there is no
peace. The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is
otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief.

