

The duration of my absence was left to my own choice; a few months, or at
most a year, was the period contemplated. One paternal kind precaution he had
taken to ensure my having a companion. Without previously communicating
with me, he had, in concert with Elizabeth, arranged that Clerval should
join me at Strasburgh.  This
interfered with the solitude I
coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the commencement of my
journey the presence of my friend could in no way be an impediment, and
truly I rejoiced that thus I should be saved many hours of lonely,
maddening reflection. Nay, Henry might stand between me and the intrusion
of my foe. If I were alone, would he not at times force his abhorred
presence on me, to remind me of my task, or to contemplate its
progress?

To England, therefore, I was bound, and
it was understood that my union with Elizabeth should take place
immediately on my return. My father's age rendered him extremely
averse to delay. For myself, there was one reward I promised
myself from my detested toils -- one consolation for my
unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when,
enfranchised from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth,
and forget the past in my union with her.

I now made arrangements for my journey; but one feeling
haunted me, which filled me with fear and agitation. During my
absence I should leave my friends unconscious of the existence of
their enemy, and unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he
might be by my departure. But he had promised to follow me
wherever I might go; and would he not accompany me to England?
This imagination was
dreadful in itself, but soothing, inasmuch
as it supposed the safety of my friends. I was agonised with the
idea of the possibility that the reverse of this might happen.
But through the whole period during which I was the slave of my
creature, I allowed myself
to be governed by the impulses of the moment; and my present
sensations strongly intimated that the fiend would follow me, and
exempt my family from the danger of his machinations.

