

But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my
hopes were suddenly extinguished, and I lost all traces of him
more utterly than I had ever done before. A ground sea was heard; the
thunder of its progress, as the waters rolled and swelled beneath
me, became every moment more ominous and terrific. I pressed on,
but in vain. The wind arose; the sea roared; and, as with the
mighty shock of an earthquake, it split, and cracked with a
tremendous and overwhelming sound. The work was soon finished: in
a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled+ between me and my enemy,
and I was left drifting on a scattered piece of ice, that was
continually lessening, and thus preparing for me a hideous
death.

In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of my
dogs died; and I myself was about to sink under the accumulation
of distress, when I saw your vessel riding at anchor, and holding
forth to me hopes of succour and life. I had no conception that
vessels ever came so far north, and was astounded at the sight.
I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars; and by
these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my
ice-raft in the direction of your ship. I had determined, if you
were going southward, still to trust myself to the mercy of the
seas rather than abandon my purpose. I hoped to induce you to
grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy. But your
direction was northward. You took me on board when my vigour was
exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied
hardships into a death which I still dread -- for my task is
unfulfilled.

Oh! when will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the daemon, allow me
the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live? If I do, swear to me, Walton, that he shall not
escape; that you will seek him, and satisfy my vengeance in his death. And
do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the
hardships that I have undergone? No; I am not so selfish. Yet, when I am
dead, if he should appear; if the ministers of vengeance should conduct
him to you, swear that he shall not live -- swear that he shall not
triumph over my accumulated woes, and survive to add to the list of his
dark crimes.  He is eloquent and
persuasive; and once his words had even power over my heart: but trust
him not. His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery and
fiendlike malice. Hear him not; call on
the manes of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of
the wretched Victor, and thrust your
sword into his heart. I will hover
near, and direct the steel aright.

