

Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally triumphed
over my selfish despair. It was
necessary that I should return without delay to Geneva, there to watch
over the lives of those I so fondly loved; and to lie in wait for the
murderer, that if any chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if
he dared again to blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim,
put an end to the existence of the monstrous Image which I had endued with
the mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My father still desired to
delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a
journey: for I was a shattered wreck, -- the shadow of a human being. My
strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton; and fever night and day preyed
upon my wasted frame.

Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience,
my father thought it best to yield. We took our passage on board a vessel
bound for Havre-de-Grace, and sailed
with a fair wind from the Irish shores.  It was midnight. I lay on the
deck, looking at the stars, and listening to the dashing of the waves. I
hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight;  and my pulse beat
with a feverish joy when I
reflected that I should soon see Geneva.  The past appeared to me in the
light of a frightful dream; yet the vessel in which I was, the wind that
blew me from the detested shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded
me, told me too forcibly that I was deceived by no vision, and that
Clerval, my friend and dearest companion, had fallen a victim to me and the monster of my creation. I repassed,
in my memory, my whole life; my quiet happiness while residing with my
family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for Ingolstadt.
I remembered, shuddering, the mad
enthusiasm that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous enemy, and
I called to mind the night in which he first lived. I was unable to pursue
the train of thought; a thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept
bitterly.

Ever since my recovery from the fever, I had been in the custom of taking
every night a small quantity of
laudanum; for it was by means of this drug only that I was enabled to
gain the rest necessary for the preservation of life. Oppressed by the
recollection of my various misfortunes, I now swallowed double my usual
quantity, and soon slept profoundly.  But sleep did not afford me respite
from thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that
scared me. Towards morning I was
possessed by a kind of night-mare; I felt the fiend's grasp in my
neck, and could not free myself from it; groans and cries rung in my ears.
My father, who was watching over me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me;
the dashing waves were around: the cloudy sky above; the fiend was not
here: a sense of security, a feeling that a truce was established between
the present hour and the irresistible, disastrous future, imparted to me a
kind of calm forgetfulness, of which the human mind is by its structure
peculiarly susceptible.

