

Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty
repressed her bitter tears. She embraced Elizabeth, and said, in a voice
of half-suppressed emotion, "Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth, my beloved and only friend; may
heaven, in its bounty, bless and preserve you; may this be the last
misfortune that you will ever suffer. Live, and be happy, and make others so."

And on the morrow Justine died. Elizabeth's heart-rending eloquence
failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality
of the saintly sufferer. My passionate and indignant appeals were lost
upon them. And when I received their cold answers, and heard the harsh
unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed avowal died away on my lips.
Thus I might proclaim myself a madman, but not revoke the sentence passed
upon my wretched victim. She perished on the scaffold as a murderess!

From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep  
and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth. This also was my doing! And my  
father's woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home -- all  
was the work of my thrice-accursed hands! Ye weep, unhappy ones; but  
these are not your last tears! Again shall you raise the funeral  
wail, and the sound of your lamentations shall again and again be  
heard! Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved  
friend; he who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes --  
who has no thought nor sense of joy, except as it is mirrored also in  
your dear countenances -- who would fill the air with blessings, and  
spend his life in serving you -- he bids you weep -- to shed  
countless tears; happy beyond his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be  
satisfied, and if the destruction pause before the peace of the grave  
have succeeded to your sad torments!

Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by 
remorse, horror, and despair, I beheld those l loved spend vain sorrow 
upon the graves of William and Justine, the first hapless victims to my 
unhallowed arts.

