

August 13th,
17--.

My affection for my guest increases
every day. He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing
degree. How can I see so noble a
creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief?
He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated; and when he
speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art, yet they flow
with rapidity and unparalleled
eloquence.

He is now much recovered from his illness, and is continually on the deck,
apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own. Yet, although
unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied
by his own misery, but that he interests himself deeply in the projects of
others. He has frequently conversed with me on mine, which I have
communicated to him without
disguise. He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my
eventual success, and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken
to secure it. I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced, to use
the language of my heart; to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul; and to
say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I would sacrifice my
fortune, my existence, my every hope, to the furtherance of my enterprise.
One man's life or death were but a small price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I
sought; for the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental
foes of our race. As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener's
countenance. At first I perceived that he tried to suppress his emotion;
he placed his hands before his eyes; and my voice quivered and failed me,
as I beheld tears trickle fast from between his fingers, -- a groan burst
from his heaving breast. I paused; -- at length he spoke, in broken
accents: -- "Unhappy man! Do you share
my madness? Have you drank also of the intoxicating draught? Hear me,
-- let me reveal my tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!"

Such words, you may imagine, strongly excited my curiosity; but the 
paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened 
powers, and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were necessary 
to restore his composure.

Having conquered the violence of his feelings, he appeared to despise 
himself for being the slave of passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of 
despair, he led me again to converse concerning myself personally. He 
asked me the history of my earlier years. The tale was quickly told: but 
it awakened various trains of reflection. I spoke of my desire of finding 
a friend -- of my thirst for a more 
intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than had ever fallen to my lot; and 
expressed my conviction that a man could boast of little happiness, who 
did not enjoy this blessing.

