

I walked about the isle like a restless
spectre, separated from all it loved, and miserable in the separation.
When it became noon, and the sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass, and
was overpowered by a deep sleep. I had been awake the whole of the
preceding night, my nerves were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching
and misery. The sleep into which I now sunk refreshed me; and when I
awoke, I again felt as if I belonged to a
race of human beings like myself, and I began to reflect upon what had
passed with greater composure; yet still the words of the fiend rung in my
ears like a death-knell, they appeared like a dream, yet distinct and
oppressive as a reality.

The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore,
satisfying my appetite, which had become ravenous, with an oaten
cake, when I saw a fishing-boat land close to me, and one of the
men brought me a packet; it contained letters from Geneva, and
one from Clerval, entreating me to join him.  He said that
he was wearing away his time
fruitlessly where he was; that
letters from the friends he had formed in London desired his
return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his
Indian enterprise. He could not any longer delay his departure; 
but as his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than
he now conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated me to
bestow as much of my society on him as I could spare. He besought
me, therefore, to leave my solitary isle, and to meet him at
Perth, that we might proceed southwards together. This letter
in a degree recalled me to life, and I determined to quit my
island at the expiration of two days.

Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which
I shuddered to reflect: I must pack up my chemical instruments; and
for that purpose I must enter the room which had been the scene
of my odious work, and I must handle those utensils, the sight of
which was sickening to me. The next morning, at daybreak, I
summoned sufficient courage, and unlocked the door of my
laboratory. The remains of the half-finished creature, whom I had
destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had mangled
the living flesh of a human being. I paused to collect
myself, and then entered the chamber. With trembling hand I
conveyed the instruments out of the room; but I reflected that I
ought not to leave the relics of my work to excite the horror and
suspicion of the peasants, and I accordingly put them into a
basket, with a great quantity of stones, and, laying them up,
determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the
mean time I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and
arranging my chemical apparatus.

