

My temper was sometimes violent, 
and my passions vehement; but by 
some law in my temperature they were turned, not towards childish   
pursuits, but to an eager desire to learn, and not to learn all
things indiscriminately. I confess that neither the structure of
languages, nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various
states, possessed attractions for me. It was the secrets of heaven   
and earth that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward
substance of things, or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious
soul of man that occupied me, still my enquiries were directed to the
metaphysical, or, in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the
world.

Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral relations of
things. The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes, and
the actions of men, were his theme; and his hope and his dream
was to become one among those whose names are recorded in
story, as the gallant and adventurous benefactors of our
species. The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a
shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home. Her sympathy was
ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of her
celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us. She
was the living spirit of
love to soften and attract: I might have become sullen in
my study, rough through the ardour of my nature, but that she
was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness.
And Clerval -- could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of
Clerval? -- yet he might not have been so perfectly humane, so
thoughtful in his generosity -- so full of kindness and
tenderness amidst his passion for adventurous exploit, had she
not unfolded to him the real loveliness of beneficence, and
made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring
ambition.

I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood,
before misfortune had tainted my mind, and changed its bright visions of
extensive usefulness into gloomy
and narrow reflections upon self.
Besides, in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record
those events which led, by insensible steps to my after tale of misery:
for when I would account to myself for the birth of that passion, which
afterwards ruled my destiny, I find
it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten
sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in
its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys.

Natural philosophy is the genius
that has regulated my fate; I desire therefore, in this narration, to
state those facts which led to my predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of
age, we all went on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon: the inclemency of the weather
obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn. In this house I chanced to
find a volume of the works of Cornelius
Agrippa. I opened it with apathy; the theory which he attempts to
demonstrate, and the wonderful facts which he relates, soon changed this
feeling into enthusiasm. A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind; and,
bounding with joy, I communicated my discovery to my father. My father looked carelessly at
the title-page of my book, and said, "Ah! Cornelius Agrippa My dear
Victor, do not waste your time upon this; it is sad trash."

