

She died calmly; and her countenance expressed affection even in
death. I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest
ties are rent by that most irreparable evil; the void that
presents itself to the soul; and the despair that is exhibited on
the countenance. It is so long before the mind can persuade
itself that she, whom we saw
every day, and whose very existence appeared a part of our
own, can have departed for ever -- that the brightness of a
beloved eye can have been extinguished, and the sound of a voice
so familiar, and dear to the ear, can be hushed, never more to be
heard. These are the reflections of the first days; but when the
lapse of time proves the reality of the evil, then the actual
bitterness of grief commences. Yet from whom has not that rude
hand rent away some dear connection? and why should I describe a
sorrow which all have felt, and must feel? The time at length
arrives, when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and
the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a
sacrilege, is not banished. My
mother was dead, but we had still duties which we ought to
perform; we must continue our course with the rest, and learn to
think ourselves fortunate, whilst one remains whom the spoiler
has not seized.

My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these
events, was now again determined upon. I obtained from my father
a respite of some weeks. It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to
leave the repose, akin to death, of the house of mourning, and to
rush into the thick of life. I was new to sorrow, but it did not
the less alarm me. I was unwilling to quit the sight of those
that remained to me; and, above all, I desired to see my sweet
Elizabeth in some degree consoled.

She indeed veiled her grief, and strove to act the comforter to
us all. She looked steadily on life, and assumed its duties with
courage and zeal. She devoted herself to those whom she had been
taught to call her uncle and cousins. Never was she so enchanting
as at this time, when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and
spent them upon us. She forgot
even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget.

