

"You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of your
parents ever since our infancy. We were told this when young,
and taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly
take place. We were affectionate playfellows during childhood,
and, I believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew
older. But as brother and sister often entertain a lively
affection towards each other, without desiring a more intimate
union, may not such also be our case? Tell me, dearest Victor.
Answer me, I conjure you, by our mutual happiness, with simple
truth -- Do you not love
another?

"You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at
Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you
last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude, from the
society of every creature, I could not help supposing that you
might regret our connection, and believe yourself bound in honour
to fulfil the wishes of your parents, although they opposed
themselves to your inclinations. But this is false reasoning. I
confess to you, my friend, that I love you, and that in my airy
dreams of futurity you have been my constant friend and
companion. But it is your happiness I desire as well as my own,
when I declare to you, that our marriage would render me
eternally miserable, unless it were the dictate of your own free choice. Even
now I weep to think, that, borne down as you are by the cruellest
misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word honour, all hope
of that love and happiness which would alone restore you to
yourself. I, who have so disinterested an affection for you, may
increase your miseries tenfold by being an obstacle to your
wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured that your cousin and playmate has
too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this
supposition. Be happy, my friend; and if you obey me in this one
request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth will have the
power to interrupt my tranquillity.

"Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow,
or the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you
pain. My uncle will send me news of your health; and if I see
but one smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or
any other exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness.

"ELIZABETH LAVENZA.

"Geneva, May 18th, 17--."

