

"Food, however, became scarce; and I often spent the whole day searching
in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger. When I found
this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto inhabited, to seek
for one where the few wants I experienced would be more easily satisfied.
In this emigration, I exceedingly lamented the loss of the fire which I
had obtained through accident, and knew not how to reproduce it. I gave
several hours to the serious consideration of this difficulty;  but I was
obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply it; and, wrapping myself up in
my cloak, I struck across the wood towards the setting sun. I passed three
days in these rambles, and at length discovered the open country. A great fall of snow had taken place the night
before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the appearance was
disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold damp substance that
covered the ground.

"It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and
shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which had
doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd. This was a new
sight to me; and I examined the structure with great curiosity. Finding
the door open, I entered. An old man sat in it, near a fire, over which he
was preparing his breakfast. He turned on hearing a noise; and, perceiving
me, shrieked loudly, and, quitting the hut, ran across the fields with a
speed of which his debilitated form hardly appeared capable. His appearance, different from any I had ever
before seen, and his flight, somewhat surprised me. But I was
enchanted by the appearance of the hut: here the snow and rain could not
penetrate; the ground was dry; and it presented to me then as exquisite
and divine a retreat as Pandæmonium
appeared to the dæmons of hell after their sufferings in the
lake of fire. I greedily devoured the
remnants of the shepherd's breakfast, which consisted of bread,
cheese, milk, and wine; the latter,
however, I did not like.  Then, overcome by fatigue, I lay down among
some straw, and fell asleep.

