

I remained motionless. The thunder ceased; but the rain still continued,
and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness. I revolved in my
mind the events which I had until now sought to forget: the whole train of
my progress towards the creation; the appearance of the work of my own
hands alive at my bedside; its departure. Two years had now nearly
elapsed since the night on which he
first received life; and was this his first crime? Alas! I had turned
loose into the world a depraved
wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not murdered my brother?

No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the remainder of the
night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air. But I did not feel
the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in scenes of evil and
despair. I considered the being whom I had cast among mankind, and
endowed with the will and power to effect purposes of horror, such as the
deed which he had now done, nearly in the light of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the
grave, and forced to destroy all that
was dear to me.

Day dawned; and I directed my steps towards the town. The gates were open,
and I hastened to my father's house. My first thought was to discover what
I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be made. But I paused
when I reflected on the story that I had to tell. A being whom I myself
had formed, and endued with life, had met me at midnight among the
precipices of an inaccessible mountain. I remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been
seized just at the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an
air of delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable. I well knew
that if any other had communicated such
a relation to me, I should have looked upon it as the ravings of
insanity. Besides, the strange nature of the animal would elude all
pursuit, even if I were so far credited as to persuade my relatives to
commence it. And then of what use would be pursuit? Who could arrest a
creature capable of scaling the overhanging sides of Mont Salêve?
These reflections determined me, and I resolved to remain silent.

