

Yet do not suppose, because I complain a little, or because I can
conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that
I am wavering in my resolutions. Those are as fixed as fate; and my voyage is
only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation.
The winter has been dreadfully severe; but the spring promises
well, and it is considered as a remarkably early season; so that,
perhaps, I may sail sooner than I expected. I shall do nothing
rashly; you know me sufficiently to confide in my prudence and
considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed
to my care.

I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my
undertaking. It is impossible to communicate to you a conception
of the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful,
with which I am preparing to depart. I am going to unexplored
regions, to "the land of mist and
snow;" but I shall kill no albatross, therefore do not be
alarmed for my safety, or if I should come back to you as worn
and woful as the "Ancient Mariner?" You will smile at my
allusion; but I will disclose a secret. I have often attributed
my attachment to, my passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous
mysteries of the ocean, to that production of the most
imaginative of modern poets.  There is something at work in my
soul, which I do not understand. I am practically industrious --
pains-taking; -- a workman to execute with perseverance and
labour: -- but besides this, there is a love for the marvellous,
a belief in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which
hurries me out of the common pathways of men, even to the wild
sea and unvisited regions I am about to explore. But to return to
dearer considerations.

Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense seas, and
returned by the most southern
cape of Africa or America? I dare not expect such success,
yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the picture. Continue
for the present to write to me by every opportunity: I may
receive your letters on some occasions when I need them most to
support my spirits. I love you very tenderly. Remember me with
affection, should you never hear from me again.

Your affectionate brother,

Rᴏʙᴇʀᴛ Wᴀʟᴛᴏɴ.

