

M. Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of 
almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me 
even more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman. "D--n the 
fellow!" cried he; "why, M. Clerval, I assure you he has outstript us 
all. Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true. A youngster 
who, but a few years ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as firmly as in the
gospel, has now set himself at the head of the university; and if he is
not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of countenance. -- Ay, ay,"
continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering, "M. Frankenstein
is modest; an excellent quality in a young man. Young men should be
diffident of themselves, you know, M. Clerval: I was myself when young;
but that wears out in a very short time."

M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself, which
happily turned the conversation from a subject that was so
annoying to me.

Clerval had never sympathised in my  
tastes for natural science; and his literary pursuits differed wholly  
from those which had occupied me. He came to the university with the  
design of making himself complete master of the oriental languages,  as thus he should open a field for the plan of life he had marked out  
for himself. Resolved to pursue no inglorious career, he turned his  
eyes toward the East, as affording scope 
for his spirit of enterprise. The Persian, Arabic, and Sanscrit 
languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on 
the same studies. Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I 
wished to fly from reflection, and hated my former studies, I felt great 
relief in being the fellow-pupil with my friend, and found not only 
instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists. I did not, 
like him, attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects, for I did not 
contemplate making any other use of them than temporary amusement. I read 
merely  to understand their meaning, and they well repaid my labours. Their 
melancholy is soothing, and their joy elevating to a degree I never 
experienced in studying the authors of any other country. When you read 
their writings, life appears to consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses, in
the smiles and frowns of a fair 
enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart. How different from 
the manly and heroical poetry of 
Greece and Rome!

