

I listened to my father in silence, and remained for some
time incapable of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly in my
mind a multitude of thoughts, and endeavoured to arrive at some
conclusion. Alas! to me the idea of an immediate union with my
Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay. I was bound by a solemn
promise, which I had not yet fulfilled, and dared not break; or,
if I did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my
devoted family! Could I enter into a festival with this deadly weight yet hanging round my
neck, and bowing me to the ground. I must perform my
engagement, and let the monster depart with his mate, before I
allowed myself to enjoy the delight of an union from which I
expected peace.

I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either
journeying to England, or entering into a long correspondence
with those philosophers of that country, whose knowledge and
discoveries were of indispensable use to me in my present
undertaking. The latter method of obtaining the desired
intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory: besides, I
had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in
my loathsome task in my father's house, while in habits of
familiar intercourse with those I loved. I knew that a thousand
fearful accidents might occur, the slightest of which would
disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror. I
was aware also that I should often lose all self-command, all
capacity of hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me
during the progress of my unearthly occupation. I must absent
myself from all I loved while thus employed. Once commenced, it
would quickly be achieved, and I might be restored to my family
in peace and happiness. My promise fulfilled, the monster would
depart for ever. Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some accident might
meanwhile occur to destroy him, and put an end to my slavery for ever.

These feelings dictated my answer to my father. I expressed a wish to
visit England; but, concealing the true
reasons of this request, I clothed my desires under a guise which
excited no suspicion, while I urged my desire with an earnestness that
easily induced my father to comply. After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy, that resembled
madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find that I was
capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey, and he hoped
that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my return, have
restored me entirely to myself.

