

It was in the latter end of
September that I again quitted my native country. My journey had been
my own suggestion, and Elizabeth, therefore, acquiesced: but she
was filled with disquiet at the idea of my suffering, away from
her, the inroads of misery and grief. It had been her care which
provided me a companion in Clerval -- and yet a man is blind to a
thousand minute circumstances, which call forth a woman's
sedulous attention. She longed to bid me hasten my return, -- a
thousand conflicting emotions rendered her mute, as she bade me a
tearful silent farewell.

I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away,
hardly knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing
around.  I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish
that I reflected on it, to order that my chemical instruments
should be packed to go with me. Filled with dreary
imaginations, I passed through many beautiful and majestic
scenes; but my eyes were fixed and unobserving. I could only
think of the bourne of my
travels, and the work which was to occupy me whilst they
endured.

After some days spent in listless indolence, during
which I traversed many leagues, I arrived at Strasburgh, where I
waited two days for Clerval. He came. Alas, how great was the
contrast between us! He was alive to every new scene; joyful when
he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he
beheld it rise, and recommence a new day. He pointed out to me
the shifting colours of the landscape, and the appearances of the
sky. "This is what it is to live," he cried, "now I enjoy
existence! But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you
desponding and sorrowful?" In truth, I was occupied by gloomy
thoughts, and neither saw the descent of the evening star, nor
the golden sunrise reflected in the Rhine. -- And you, my friend, would be far
more amused with the journal of
Clerval, who observed the scenery
with an eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my
reflections. I, a miserable
wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to
enjoyment.

