

While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I
happened to look up. The windows of the room had before been
darkened, and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow
light of the moon illuminate the chamber. The shutters had been
thrown back; and, with a sensation of horror not to be described,
I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred.
A grin was on the face of the
monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his fiendish finger he
pointed towards the corpse of my wife. I rushed towards the
window, and drawing a pistol from my bosom, fired: but he eluded
me, leaped from his station, and, running with the swiftness of
lightning, plunged into the lake.

The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I
pointed to the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the
track with boats; nets were cast, but in vain. After passing
several hours, we returned hopeless, most of my companions
believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy. After
having landed, they proceeded to search the country, parties
going in different directions among the woods and vines.

I attempted to accompany them, and proceeded a short distance from
the house; but my head whirled round, my steps were like those of
a drunken man, I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion; a
film covered my eyes, and my skin was parched with the heat of fever. In this state I was
carried back, and placed on a
bed, hardly conscious of what had happened; my eyes wandered
round the room, as if to seek something that I had lost.

After an
interval, I arose, and, as if by instinct, crawled into the room
where the corpse of my beloved lay. There were women weeping
around -- I hung over it, and joined my sad tears to theirs --
all this time no distinct idea presented itself to my mind;
but my thoughts rambled to various subjects, reflecting
confusedly on
my misfortunes, and their
cause. I was bewildered in a cloud of wonder and horror. The
death of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of
Clerval, and lastly of my wife; even at that moment I knew not
that my only remaining friends were safe from the malignity of
the fiend; my father even now might be writhing under his grasp,
and Ernest might be dead at his feet. This idea made me shudder,
and recalled me to action. I started up, and resolved to return
to Geneva with all possible speed.

